Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
Ok, so we have two big concepts under our belts.
Frameworks and integrated development environments or IDEs.
Now, there is one more concept that is both
changing the landscape of modern programming
and almost always confused for one of
the other two things we just talked about.
This concept is what's called a library.
This is by far one of the most confusing
things for the non-technical to understand.
What is a library and how is that different than a framework or an IDE?
Well, we're going to attempt to answer that.
Libraries, frameworks, and IDEs can often share similar functions
and often libraries are installed at the same time as the others,
but it's actually not exactly the same thing.
Have you ever heard anyone say things like
"That must be built in ReactJS" or "Have you tried JQuery"?
Chances are you have, and chances are
they're just shamelessly trying to convince you
that it's the greatest thing ever, and you have to learn it now.
Those two garbled gook terms I just used are examples of libraries.
Not frameworks, not IDEs, those are actually libraries.
Ok, to explain libraries we have to take a
similar path as when we learned about frameworks.
Writing applications takes a really long time, and there's a lot of stuff that is redundant,
and if you wrote everything from scratch it
would take way longer than if you had some help.
I think you've heard this already.
That was the point where people said,
"Ok, let's make frameworks that are essentially pre-made architecture
for your app plus a whole bunch of goodies kind of sprinkled in."
Remember, this is the template to your resume.
At the same time, there was a smaller movement to solve this problem,
and the solution was instead to just take lots of chunks of pre-made commands,
and package them together for easy access.
The idea here is that if you're making, let's say, a social network,
you might want to program the same kinds
of functions that other social networks have.
Add, say, a "like" button, add the 50th sepia tone filter, etc.
Well, instead of doing all of that by scratch,
I could go and find a library of assorted pre-made bits to save me time.
JQuery is one of the most popular and famous libraries
and the use for it is actually pretty simple to understand.
Websites, if you haven't noticed this, are adding more and more animation,
and varying degrees of motion and interactivity to their front-end.
People are getting really creative with what moves on the screen.
But writing that stuff, the actual interaction commands, from scratch
can take an enormous amount of time, hence the library that can
supercharge your ability to make your site do ridiculous things
that are most likely just distracting and make me want to browse away.
And it's worth bringing up JQuery because it's
only one of many popular libraries for JavaScript.
There are an insane amount of different libraries
for doing anything and everything in JavaScript.
There are even search engines just dedicated to finding JavaScript libraries.
My two favorites JavaScript libraries, if I do
say so myself, is one that's used to template websites,
the first one is called Handlebars, and the second one is called Mustache.
To go along with the hipster thing, I think there's one called like Unicycle,
or Fixie Bike, or something like that.
And of course, back-end languages have libraries as well.
Making a script that runs to your server, let's say, to grab a piece of information
and bring it back, it's a pain to make that
yourself, so you can get a library to do it for you.
If you wanted a library for, let's say, making something in Ruby,
you could download what is called a "gem."
And this is a word I've been told repeatedly that I can't actually pronounce.
It's gem, or... gem.
I don't know, I just... whatever.
Jim went to the gym to get his gem.
Yeah, I'm from the Midwest.
The general theme of libraries is that they're just
chunks of code centered around something.
Want to scrape websites?
Well, there's a library called Scrapy.
Sick of making basic forms that are ugly and don't have a lot of fancy functions?
Well, there's a library called Formtastic.
There are literally too many libraries to actually discuss.
The only other thing worth knowing, I think, is that frameworks and IDEs
are usually pretty adept at using libraries,
and they are usually designed to support them.
So again, to use the creative writing metaphor
that we've essentially beaten to death,
what if you were, let's say, researching the topic of U.S. Presidents,
and you got really tired of putting their quotes in your book,
and making sure those quotes were formatted and just right.
A programming library equivalent here might be a document
that's just full of Presidential quotes organized by time and which president,
and if what they said was hilariously inaccurate.
Ok, now you are three concepts smarter.
Just imagine how good you'll feel when someone asks you
what you think of the AngularJS library, and you say,
"Excuse me, that's actually a framework. You're thinking of React or Ember."
Yeah, I know, that'll never happen, but we can dream.
All right guys, in the next lecture, we're going to talk about
yet another concept that is essential to know.
It's called the API.